# Why GPL?

Generally speaking, I am an advocate of permissive licenses like MIT, and avoid using code that is licensed under copyleft licenses like GPL. Copyleft licenses can take away the freedom of other developers to license their own code as they wish, and instead lock them into the copyleft paradigm against their will. Regardless of whether you see this feature as a [vaccine](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/vaccination.en.html) or as a [virus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viral_license), there is no question that it makes it harder for others to use the copylefted code, and I believe the burden of using open source code should be as close to nil as possible. So then, why have I licensed this software under AGPL v3, a copyleft license, if copyleft goes against my beliefs about open source software?

The answer is simple: this is not a library. It is not a component that could be dropped into an existing codebase. This is a complete package, built for end-users, and not, principally, for other software developers. The only reason this code as a whole would be used by someone else is either to contribute to the complete package as part of the open source community, or to steal the complete package and redistribute (or serve) it under a layer of proprietary secrecy. Permissive licenses would enable the latter, but doing so is not really the intent of permissive licenses. Rather than making the code more accessible, licensing this code under a permissive license would only open it up for abuse without providing any meaningful upside to the open source community.

However, while this project as a whole is a complete package, there are many smaller, more isolated components within this project which someone may want to use to build their software, but which they cannot because of licensing constraints. While I am not open to licensing the entire codebase under a permissive license, I am open to licensing individual components of the project under a license like MIT, provided there is demand.
